The following notes are a high level overview.  Please embellish and correct according to your experience.

When compiling you will notice warnings regarding anonymous inner classes.  These can be ignored and are due to libraries compiled with JDK 1.4.

= Eclipse =

Eclipse is the IDE used for development of And Bible.

 # Download and install jdk 1.6.
 # Install the [http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html Android SDK].
 # Install [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ Eclipse] for Java EE developers or for Java Developers
 # Install the [http://developer.android.com/sdk/eclipse-adt.html Eclipse ADT plugin].
 # Ensure Eclipse has a Git plugin e.g. eGit or install Git for use from the command line (see below for more details).
 # Clone the [https://github.com/mjdenham/and-bible And Bible source]
 # In eclipse right-click the And Bible project and select Run As/Android Application

= Git =

You could take one of at least 2 approaches to get And Bible source code from Github - 1) use the EGit plugin for Eclipse 2) use pure git commands e.g 'git pull'

You will probably want to install egit anyway so if you do then you can follow the [http://wiki.eclipse.org/EGit/User_Guide#Starting_from_existing_Git_Repositories 'Starting from existing repositories'] instructions.

If you install basic command line [http://git-scm.com/ git] then you could do the following:
md andbible
cd andbible
git init
git pull git://github.com/mjdenham/and-bible.git

= App Bar Compat =
The App Bar Compat library is now required.  If using Eclipse this must be configured as a Library Project.

Follow [http://developer.android.com/tools/support-library/setup.html#libs-with-res Adding libraries with resources] on the Android [http://developer.android.com/tools/support-library Support Library] page.
Check appcompat-proj/project.properties to ensure the compat library sdk version is consistent with And Bible's and has been downloaded using the Android SDK.

After installation you should see a project named android-support-v7-appcompat in your eclipse IDE.

= Other IDEs =

Some IDEs like IDEA already have custom embedded Android Tools which can be used.  See this [http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/other-ide.html Google Help Page] for more information.

= Future Gradle =
In the future gradle will be used for builds but eclipse builds (as now) will be supported in parallel.  However, libraries will no longer be pre-installed in the libs folder but using gradle will automatically download and copy the required libraries to the libs folder for use in eclipse builds.  To force population of the libs folder run:  
gradle copyJarDependencies

Gradle 1.12 should be installed as described at:
http://www.gradle.org/installation

The Enide Gradle eclipse plugin can be downloaded from the Eclipse Marketplace.

== Initialisation ==
After first install you will need to force Gradle to download required jars and make them available to eclipse in teh libs folder by:
  * right-click build.gradle in the And Bible project and select: Run As/Gradle build Gradle build
  * press F5 on the libs folder to refresh it


To build either:
  * right-click build.gradle in the And Bible project and select: Run As/Gradle installDebug Gradle Android start  
Or
  * from the command prompt type: gradle appStart

= Problems =
== ActionBar cannot be resolved to a type == 
You need to install the App Bar Compat library as described in the links above.