#summary Custom CSS Stylesheet for Document Text

This feature is part of version 2.1.10 and is not yet released (Jan 2015).

= Introduction =

It is possible to change the colour, layout, or style of document text by creating a custom stylesheet.

= Details =

Create a css stylesheet using classes and attributes as found in these standard stylesheets: [https://github.com/mjdenham/and-bible/blob/master/AndBible/assets/web/style.css style.css] [https://github.com/mjdenham/and-bible/blob/master/AndBible/assets/web/night_mode.css night_mode.css].

Name the files style.css or night_mode.css and place them in a folder named 'jsword/css' on your sdcard.

The style.css file will always be loaded but the night_mode.css will only be loaded when Night mode is selected.

Tye custom stylesheets will be loaded in addition the default And Bible stylesheets so it is only necessary to add the styles you wish to override.

After changing either css file And Bible will need to be restarted to show the changes.

== Example ==
An example custom css file to use green text for night mode is attached.
It sets the text and heading to green as follows:
{{{
body {
	color: #007000;
}

.heading1 {
	color: #007000;
}
}}}
== Hi tag ==
In addition to the standard style classes used by And Bible module developers requiring a custom span tag may use the type 'x-\*'.
E.g. 
{{{
<hi type='x-anything'>module text</hi> 
}}}
will result in:
{{{
<span class='hi hi_x-anything'>text</span>
}}}
So you may add the class 'hi_x-anything' to your stylesheet.