#summary Frequently asked questions
#labels faq
=And Bible FAQ=
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== How can I scroll to the next chapter ==
Swipe right/left to go to the previous/next chapter.

== I have downloaded one bible but how do I download more bibles, commentaries etc. ==

To download bibles, commentaries, and books start And Bible and select Menu button (see 'Where is the Menu Button' below) / More / Download Documents.

Downloads are best done when connected via WiFi but you can download using your normal mobile data connection.

== Where is the Menu button ==

The Menu button is not always clearly visible on some recent phones.  Sometimes it is represented by 4 horizontal lines or 3 vertical dots.  Recent HTC devices may have a stripe along the bottom of the screen containing only 3 dots, or you may need to long-press the App-switcher or Home button.

== Can you add an Exit button? ==

Pressing the Home button takes you to the main Android screen from which you can see all your other applications.  Long-pressing the Home button allows you to jump straight to any recent application.  This is the standard way Android applications work.

Android 4 has the Task Switcher button which allows you to switch to, or close by side-swiping any app.

Exit buttons are not normally used in Android applications:
[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2033914/quitting-an-application-is-that-frowned-upon/2034238#2034238 Quitting an application - is that frowned upon?]
[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4089496/android-app-exit-button Android App Exit Button]

== Can I manually add modules/documents to And Bible? ==

Yes, you can copy modules to a jsword directory on your sd card.  Expand the module so that the .conf file is in sdcard/jsword/mods.d and the bible files in a subdirectory of sdcard/jsword/modules e.g. sdcard\jsword\modules\texts\ztext\nettext.

The main source for modules to manually install is: http://www.crosswire.org/sword/modules/index.jsp or http://www.crosswire.org/ftpmirror/pub/sword/raw/.  

There is a list of module repositories here: http://www.crosswire.org/wiki/Module_Repositories

Modules/documents installed via the Download screen in And Bible will be placed in a different directory.

== Why do I have to re-Download Documents after upgrading to a new version of And Bible ==

This is caused by a bug in Android 2.2.  And Bible automatically deletes all downloaded documents if And Bible is uninstalled but support for this feature was not implemented correctly by Google in Android 2.2 so documents are deleted on upgrade as well as on uninstall.  This problem does not affect Android 2.3.x or later.

== Can I delete a document from And Bible ==

To delete a document:
 * display the documents list
 * long-press on the document
 * select Delete

This will also delete the document's index.

Documents currently being displayed cannot be deleted, and neither can documents that have only just been downloaded.

== How can I get help? ==

The [https://groups.google.com/group/and-bible And Bible Discussion Group] allows you to ask questions or discuss And Bible features.

Alternatively e-mail help.andbible@gmail.com

== I just see squares instead of the Hebrew bible ==

Hebrew font support was added in Android 2.2.  Although some people have found out how to add Hebrew fonts to older versions of Android that is not supported although it may work for you.

Hebrew fonts are in Android 2.2 but RTL does not work if Hebrew vowels are displayed so And Bible does not display Hebrew vowels.

== And Bible is large ==

It is actually smaller than most other programs but if you are on Android 2.2+ then you can move it to the SD card.  And Bible was reduced from over 5 Mb to 1.5 Mb in version 0.0.14.

== I want integration with Strong's Concordance ==

This has been implemented.  There are several bibles containing Strongs references one of which is the KJV.

== How can I go to a Strong's Reference Number ==

You can go to a Strong's reference by
  * clicking a link in a bible containing Strong's references
  * when viewing Strong's select MENU/Contents and then enter the desired no e.g. 02227 - remember the initial zero.
  * swipe left/right when viewing a Strong's page to go to next/prev ref
Release 0.4.0 will allow a list of all occurrences of a Strong's number to be displayed.

== Can I generate my own indexes and manually copy them to my Android mobile ==

To allow for auto-uninstall of application generated files indexes are generated to the appropriate module sub-dir of /mnt/sdcard/Android/data/net.bible.android.activity/files/lucene/Sword e.g. ESV indexes are in ../lucene/Sword/ESV.

Sword generated indexes partially work in And Bible but fully compatible indexes must be generated using a recent JSword application on JDK 1.5+.

The best, quickest and most reliable method to get a search index is to download it using And Bible as requested the first time you request a Search.